---
title: "Installing MediaWiki on OKD"
date: 2023-07-28T11:56:00Z
categories: [ "Blog" ]
draft: false
---

I love documentation. I wouldn't say that my short term memory is _bad_, per se, but I feel way more comfortable writing _everything_ down. Documenting each and every step of a task, braindumping to a notebook, google doc page, or [Mastodon](https://www.librepunk.club/@will/110770681816319368) thread, or taking photos or videos of a disassembly or repair makes me feel so much more confident about the task. It's a useful habit and skill that benefits myself and anyone working on a project or in a community. It's one of the reason I like to blog.

So anyway, CSH has an internal wiki hosted on a fucking ancient HTTPD server called "Yasuko" we've been running since god-knows-when. Well before my time, at least. Probably late 2000's if I had to guess. (When did RHEL 7 come out?). Over time, this thing has been stripped of its responsibilities in favor of cleaner, saner, easier to maintain solutions. The wiki is one of the things that remains, because it's a tangled mess of PHP that has bested several attempts to migrate it somewhere else. It's also a sensitive creature, chock full of some of our most important history.

However, I wanted to write a silly program, because we have an issue where we'll discuss a problem at length, generate a bunch of useful/juicy info, and then promptly bury that useful info under a mountain of shitposts, memes, and other conversation. Then, in 6 months, we'll have the same goddamn problem again, and someone will spend like 30 minutes digging through slack looking for that nugget of wisdom of yore. Repeat ad nauseum.

Of course, if you had discipline, you would copy and paste this wisdom out of slack, painstakingly, message by message, dodging profile pictures, usernames, and weird formatting, all by hand. Nobody likes doing that. So, we don't!

Enter me, last year, talking about this problem. I had an idea to write a Slack bot that would be able to copypasta transcripts of threads to your wiki for you. Maybe there'd be some AI, secret sauce, something in there that could even summarize the conversation to highlight the key points and what have you. At the time, I didn't have the bandwidth or motivation to do it, but [now I do.](https://github.com/willnilges/grab)

It's called Grab. A slackbot to do that thing I was just talking about.

## OK idiot get to the damn point

So Grab uses the Slack API to get content off slack, then has to use the Mediawiki API to put that content onto MediaWiki. MediaWiki has a whole flow for bot accounts and bots to login and whatever using MediaWiki, but here's the problem: **Yasuko.**

Yasuko serves MediaWiki through HTTPD. It has some kind of demonic connection to our SSO instance, Keycloak. It uses an OpenID Connect module to do this, and decides what is and is not behind auth based on whether it is hosted in `/var/www/pub` or `/var/www/priv`. Why is this a problem? Well, that includes MediaWiki's API. As far as MediaWiki is concerned, it will never see a user that isn't authenticated. In order for this HTTPD server to let you through at all, you need a session cookie, which will tell MediaWiki who you are. If you don't have this, you get booted to our login portal. **No matter what.**

This includes any robots, scripts, or other computerized visitors. If you have a session cookie, you can get in. But, as far as I can tell, there's no "proper" way for a robot to authenticate through this portal. Obviously.

There might be some keycloak fuckery I could do to acquire this cookie, but that's gross, and perpetuates the problem that this setup has caused.

So what to do? Basically, see above; We want to move this wiki off this server. Ideally, we'd like to get rid of this server, because it's 2023 and you need to containerize absolutely everything these days, right?

In all seriousness, there are simply better ways of doing things these days, and that includes hosting a wiki, and authenticating it. Basically all of our services nowadays are containerized, and handle authentication themselves. MediaWiki can do the same through the [PluggableAuth](https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Extension:PluggableAuth) and [OpenID Connect](https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Extension:OpenID_Connect) plugins.

So I figured, "OK, I guess it's my turn to take a stab at migrating the wiki." I had no idea if these extensions would play nicely with the API, but it was "the logical way forward™"

## Sorry, I'm rambling: Here's the actual guide

1. Create a new project on OKD, and import [my MediaWiki project](https://github.com/willnilges/willnilges-mediawiki). It's based on the [MediaWiki container](https://hub.docker.com/_/mediawiki) and has all the configuration you should need to download and install extensions.

2. Create some configmaps for `000-default.conf` and `ports.conf`. On its own, the container will probably crash. This is because OKD doesn't like it when containers try to serve on ports <1000 (because rootless).

3. Setup a MySQL database somewhere. Chances are, if you're looking to migrate, you already have one. That's out of scope of this post. Google it.

4. Create a volume for images. MediaWiki needs an OKD PersistentVolume to store media in.

5. Configure a route and service for your wiki so that you can access the web UI. When you get there, you'll go through the setup. Do so, and it will stand up the database and generate a LocalSettings.php file. Download that, then create another ConfigMap and paste it in there.

6. At this point, you have a basic MediaWiki setup. You can get this far without my MediaWiki project. To install plugins, however, the documentation on the Docker container isn't that helpful. My project should handle most everything for you, **except for running update.php**

7. To run update.php, get a shell into your MediaWiki instance.

```
oc exec -it mediawiki-6444d47f7-l5dgr -- /bin/bash
```

From there, navigate to your wiki's base directory (will be the same, becuase containers are based af) and run the update script:

```
cd /var/www/html/
php maintenance/update.php # The wiki docs say to cd into maintenance, but it yelled at me when I ran it from there.
```

That will do a whole bunch of shit to your database
